# A-Probabilistic-Exploration-of-Food-Insecurity-and-Supplemental-Assistance
Food insecurity is a stark threat that grips our country and effects households throughout our country. Dietary insufficiency manifests itself in in ways that effect health and public safety. According to researchers, 1individuals who suffer from food insecurity have a higher risk of aggression, anxiety suicide ideation and depression. These problems tend to occur unequally distributed among those households with lower income. In a direct response, the USDA Economic Research Service in conjunction to the Food and Nutrition Service, launched a large research survey that studied families across the United States to determine individual and household food consumption choices, economic purchasing power, and geographical acquisition patterns. In 2016, this data was published under the name, National Household Food Acquisition and Purchase Survey, or FoodAPS. Using the information from this vast endeavor, I plan to preform an exploratory analysis within these data sets to examine the socio-economic, biographical, nutritional, and geographical principal components of food insecurity among survey participants and how the US Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) effects partakers of this study. Programs such as this are inherently designed to feed the hungry, however the goal of his research is to determine if SNAP is an effective combatant of food scarcity within the domain of unequal income distribution. 

The methodology for this project will utilize a probabilistic machine learning approach. These mathematical and statistical methods can be used to determine unseen patterns and hidden correlations within the data provided. The data science pipeline will be followed to gain the most statistically significant and predictively powerful results. Therefore, data will be selected from the USDA FoodAPS database and will be cleaned in a hybrid approach, combining relevant Pandas and NumPy functions alongside human interaction within the dataframe. In order meet the statistical requirements for regression analysis, the data will be tested and transformed into a normalized, independent dataset, in which each feature has a constant mean and standard deviation. Tools such as SMOTE, ANOVA and K-Cross Fold Validation will be used in this process.  At the beginning of the analysis, unsupervised machine learning algorithms such as Clustering, and SOMs will be applied to allow for relevant biographical clusters to be formed among participants. Additionally, once the clusters are formed and new features can be extracted via data engineering. Finally, traditional supervised ML procedures such as Logistic Regression and Multi-Layer Perceptions will be used for food insecurity classification, prediction, and Propensity Score Matching to effectively explore the probabilistic causes for UDSA SNAP program enrolment and American food insecurity. Once these statistical analyses are completed, relevant data and results will be presented using customized visualizations, and relevant machine learning performance metrics. 
